---
layout: post
title: Market-based Energy Production Optimization
image: "/posts/PowerStation.jpg"
tags: [Python, H2O AutoML, Energy Demand, Production Optimization]
---

Several machine learning models will be demonstrated in this post to predict electrical energy production from a power plant based on environmental and control features. Exploratory Data Analysis will be conducted to find correlations of each features to the target variable. Results of the trained models will be compared and the best model will be further used to recommend some exemplary energy market actions.

---

### Introduction: Business Problem 

To ensure a steady supply of electricity to consumers, energy suppliers owning electric power plants should produce and place the right amount of electricity on the grid at every moment to instantaneously meet and balance electricity demand. To this end, it is important for them to know in advance how much power output they can produce by taking into account certain parameters, and how much the current market price in such way they can maximize the profit of selling the produced electric power.

This Notebook will focus on a combined cycle power plant, which consists of gas turbines, steam turbines, and heat recovery steam generators. In this type of plant, the electric power is generated by gas and steam turbines combined in one cycle. Then, it is transferred from one turbine to another. While the vacuum is collected from and has an effect on the steam turbine, the ambient variables (i.e. temperature, pressure and humidity) affect the gas turbine performance.
This case study aims to model the energy generated as a function of the exhaust vacuum and the ambient variables and use that model to predict the output performance of the plant. This output will be used to estimate cost and profit for certain actions made by energy supplier.

---

### Data Acquisition and Exploratory Data Analysis

The dataset that is used for this usecase are:
- Combined cycle powerplant data from [UCI Machine Learning Repository](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Combined+Cycle+Power+Plant)
  This dataset contains 9568 data points collected from a combined cycle powerplant over 6 years, where the power plant was set to work with full load. Hour data were collected for Average Ambient Temperature (T[degC]), Exhaust Vacuum** (V[cm Hg]), Ambient Pressure (AP[mbar]), Relative Humidity (RH[%]), and Net Electrical Energy Output (EP[MW]). For demonstration purpose, powerplant data has been modified with an artificial datetime variable
- Pool price forecast data from [AESO](http://ets.aeso.ca/) 



---

### Data Analysis



---

### Results & Conclusion



